DOCSP-46818: Client bulk write (#474)
mongodb/docs-golang: source/fundamentals/crud/write-operations/bulk.txt

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use {+driver-short+} to
perform **bulk operations**. Bulk operations reduce the number
of calls to the server by performing multiple write operations
in a single method.

The ``Collection`` and ``Client`` classes both provide a ``BulkWrite()``
method. When calling ``BulkWrite()`` on a ``Collection`` instance, you can
perform multiple write operations on a single collection. When calling
``BulkWrite()`` on a ``Client`` instance, you can perform bulk writes across
multiple namespaces. In MongoDB, a namespace consists of the database name and the collection
name in the format ``<database>.<collection>``. 

> .. important::

Reviewer: S: add a title
"Client Bulk Write Compatibility"

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use {+driver-short+} to
perform **bulk operations**. Bulk operations reduce the number
of calls to the server by performing multiple write operations
in a single method.

The ``Collection`` and ``Client`` classes both provide a ``BulkWrite()``

> method. When calling ``BulkWrite()`` on a ``Collection`` instance, you can
> perform multiple write operations on a single collection. When calling
> ``BulkWrite()`` on a ``Client`` instance, you can perform bulk writes across
> multiple namespaces. In MongoDB, a namespace consists of the database name and the collection
> name in the format ``<database>.<collection>``. 

Reviewer: S: in the bulk write method the namespaces are not given in that format so I recommend removing to avoid confusion
```suggestion
method. You can use the ``Collection.BulkWrite()`` method to
perform multiple write operations on a single collection. When calling
the ``Collection.BulkWrite()`` method, you can perform bulk writes across
multiple namespaces. In MongoDB, a namespace consists of a database name and a collection name. 
```

.. important:: Client Bulk Write Requirements

   To perform bulk operations on a ``Client`` instance,
   ensure that your application meets the following
   requirements:

>    - Uses {+driver-short+} v2.1 or later 

Reviewer: S: remove this first pooint and combine into a sentence. This change will only be on the v2.1+ branch anyways so no need to explicitly include

- ``Book`` struct, which models documents in the ``db.books`` collection.
  Each document contains a description of a book that includes the title,
  author, and page length.

- ``Poem`` struct, which models documents in the ``db.poems`` collection.
  Each document contains a description of a poem that includes the title,
  author, and publication year.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/bulkOps.go
   :start-after: start-structs
   :end-before: end-structs
   :language: go
   :dedent:

To run the examples in this guide, load the sample data into the
``books`` and ``poems`` collection by using the following snippet:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/bulkOps.go
   :language: go
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin insertDocs
   :end-before: end insertDocs

.. include:: /includes/fundamentals/automatic-db-coll-creation.rst

.. _golang-bulk-collection:

Collection Bulk Write
---------------------

To perform a bulk operation on a single namespace, call the ``BulkWrite()``
method on a collection and pass an array of :ref:`WriteModel <golang-write-model-collection>`
documents as a parameter.

> Modify Collection-Level Behavior

Reviewer: S suggest moving the options and return value sections to the end of this section after the define write models section (applies to collection and client)

   * - ``SetHint()`` 
     - | The index to use to scan for documents.

   * - ``SetSort()`` 
     - | The criteria to use when ordering matching documents.

>          This method is not available for the ``UpdateMnyModel``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         This method is only available for the ``UpdateOneModel``
```

     - Description

   * - ``SetBypassDocumentValidation()`` 
     - | Specifies whether the operation can opt-out of document level validation.
       | Default: ``false``

   * - ``SetOrdered()``
     - | Specifies whether the driver stops performing write operations after an error occurs. 
       | Default: ``true``

Collection-Level Return Value
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``BulkWrite()`` method returns a ``BulkWriteResult`` type, which
includes information about the bulk operation.

> The ``BulkWriteResult`` type contains the following properties:

Reviewer 2: Do we need to add the `Acknowledged` property?

Author: added!

     - Description

   * - ``SetBypassDocumentValidation()`` 
     - | Specifies whether the operation can opt-out of document level validation.
       | Default: ``false``

   * - ``SetComment()``
     - | Specifies a comment to attach to the operation. 
       | Default: ``nil``

   * - ``SetLet()``
     - | Specifies a document with a list of values to improve operation readability. Values
         must be constant or closed expressions that don't reference document fields. For more
         information, see the :manual:`let statement

>          </reference/command/delete/#std-label-delete-let-syntax>` in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to mention the </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-let-syntax> as well?
Also, do we need to somehow align this section with the `SetLet` in the "Client-Level Behavior" underneath?

Reviewer 2: 👍 IMO, a link to a generic reference is not necessary for the Golang-specific doc, neither the delete nor the update. Moreover, listing the delete syntax alone causes a feeling like it's for the delete operation only. However, I'm OK with either keeping the "delete-let-syntax" link or removing it. @jtazin, what are your thoughts?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I agree that it could be confusing to link to one and not the other. It sounds like it would be best to either have both or none.
I do like having links for more information, especially since "let" doesn't seem obvious to me.
The [Server bulk write documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/command/bulkWrite/) includes both. To bad there isn't a way to link directly to the "let" on this page. Perhaps we can copy what we do?
Either way, I don't feel too strongly about this one.
@norareidy and @qingyang-hu let me know if you have additional thoughts.

   * - ``ModifiedCount``
     - The number of documents modified by update and replace operations.

   * - ``DeletedCount``
     - The number of documents deleted.
   
   * - ``UpsertedCount`` 
     - The number of documents :ref:`upserted <golang-upsert-definition>` by update and replace operations.

   * - ``InsertResults`` 
     - A map of an operation index to the ``_id`` value of each inserted document.

   * - ``UpdateResults`` 
     - A map of an operation index to the ``_id`` value of each updated document.

   * - ``DeleteResults`` 
     - A map of an operation index to the ``_id`` value of each deleted document.

   * - ``Acknowledged`` 
     - A boolean value that indicates whether the write operation was acknowledged.

   * - ``HasVerboseResults`` 
     - A boolean value that indicates whether the result contains detailed results.

.. _golang-write-model-client:

Define Client Bulk Write Models
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To specify the write operations for your bulk operation on multiple
namespaces, create a ``ClientWriteModel`` for each insert,

> replace, update, or delete.

Reviewer: S: add a sentence describing how the first two parameters for each model supply the target namespace

   * - ``SetFilter()`` 
     - | The :ref:`query filter <golang-query-filter-definition>` specifying which document to update.

   * - ``SetHint()`` 
     - | The index to use to scan for documents.

   * - ``SetSort()`` 
     - | The criteria to use when ordering matching documents.
         This method is not available for the ``ClientUpdateManyModel`` class.

   * - ``SetUpdate()`` 
     - | The modifications to apply on the matched documents.

   * - ``SetUpsert()`` 
     - | Whether to insert a new document if the :ref:`query filter <golang-query-filter-definition>`
         doesn't match any documents.

This example creates ``ClientUpdateOneModel`` instances to define
the following operations:

- Update operation on the ``books`` collection to update a 
  document in which the ``author`` value is ``"Elena Ferrante"``

- Update operation on the ``poems`` collection to update a 
  document in which the ``author`` value is ``"Ada Limon"``

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/bulkOps.go
   :language: go
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin bulk update model client
   :end-before: end bulk update model client

> 

Reviewer: S: add a note that describes updatemany model as an option to update all matching documents

To learn more about any of the methods or types discussed in this
guide, see the following API Documentation:

> - `BulkWrite() <{+api+}/mongo#Collection.BulkWrite>`__

Reviewer: S: consider sorting this into two lists as done on the kotlin sync page
